---
layout: post
title: Static Attestation - A Short Review Continued
categories: [MScProject]
tags: [attestation]
---

To continue on from this morning's post.

## Remote Attestation to Dynamic System Properties: Towards Providing Complete System Integrity Evidence

<a href="http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/5270348/">This paper</a> aims to solve a different problem of attestation - that of dynamic attestation. It uses various different components to measure run-time statistics such as data invariants. They state that they aim for full coverage of the source code rather than all execution paths (which apparently is the equivalent to solving the halting problem, but what is the halting problem?). Heavily interwoven with the Linux kernel they track all system calls. It heavily relies on the TPM to do the heavy lifting of signing attestation reports and isolating records of violations. They also mention [Merkel hash tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) for use in authenticating input files for the `proc` file.

This has been very different to other attestation methods previously examined so perhaps I'm not able to fully comprehend it as of yet, but it contains many tools and references which could yet prove fruitful.

## Software-Based Remote Code Attestation in Wireless Sensor Network

This work (again software-based) focusses on filling empty memory with predictable contents (such as ciphertext generated by the verifier) in an attempt to prevent an attacker from utilizing free space for malicious instructions. This is a general method used in a few solutions (such as...)

## On the Difficulty of Software-Based Attestation of Embedded Devices

This paper proves that my fears around software-based attestation were not unfounded. The attack SWATT by adding a hook into the attestation code which swaps out malicious code to data memory, as a result they recommend covering all memory in attestation processes (which they note would not be easy in embedded systems). They note that the time overhead relied upon by SWATT is imprecise and that their attacks fit within the tolerance. The paper also attacks solutions which fill empty memory with noise, they found they could compress legitimate applications to make room for malicious ones.

## What I have learnt in this post

Merkel hash tree could be a good method of storing or tracking the history of control flow.

It is important to attest all parts of memory. This will be a focus for future work.

## To do

I need to see if ARM TrustZone can be used in some manner for attestation.
